WARNING: Do not connect
wireless plug-in devices to the data link
connector. Unauthorized third parties
could gain access to vehicle data and
impair the performance of safety related
systems. Only allow repair facilities that
follow our service and repair instructions
to connect their equipment to the data
link connector.
We respect your privacy and are
committed to protecting it. The
information contained in this publication
was correct at the time of release, but as
technology rapidly changes, we
recommend that you visit the local Ford
website for the latest information.
Your vehicle has electronic control units
that have data recording functionality and
the ability to permanently or temporarily
store data. This data could include
information on the condition and status of
your vehicle, vehicle maintenance
requirements, events and malfunctions.
The types of data that can be recorded are
described in this section. Some of the data
recorded is stored in event logs or error
logs.
Note: Error logs are reset following a service
or repair.
Note: We may provide information in
response to requests from law enforcement,
other government authorities and third
parties acting with lawful authority or
through a legal process. Such information
could be used by them in legal proceedings.
Data recorded includes, for example:
•
Operating states of system
components, for example fuel level,
tire pressure and battery charge level.
•
Vehicle and component status, for
example wheel speed, deceleration,
lateral acceleration and seatbelt
status.
•
Events or errors in essential systems,
for example headlamps and brakes.
•
System responses to driving situations,
for example airbag deployment and
stability control.
•
Environmental conditions, for example
temperature.
Some of this data, when used in
combination with other information, for
example an accident report, damage to a
vehicle or eyewitness statements, could
be associated with a specific person.
Services That We Provide
If you use our services, we collect and use
data, for example account information,
vehicle location and driving characteristics,
that could identify you. We transmit this
data through a dedicated, protected
connection. We only collect and use data
to enable your use of our services to which
you have subscribed, with your consent or
where permitted by law. For additional
information, see the terms and conditions
of the services to which you have
subscribed.
For additional information about our
privacy policy, refer to the local Ford
website.
Services That Third Parties
Provide
We recommend that you review the terms
and conditions and data privacy
information for any services equipped with
your vehicle or to which you subscribe. We
take no responsibility for services that third
parties provide.
Where equipped, SiriusXM with 360L could
use the modem. To disable, turn off the
SiriusXM with 360L or Vehicle Connectivity
setting.  See Enabling and Disabling the
Modem (page 440).
24
Expedition (TBD) Canada/Mexico/United States of America, enUSA, Edition date: 202409, DOM
Data Privacy


Note: Consistent with your data and
connectivity settings, data may be accessed
by third parties.
SERVICE DATA
Service data recorders in your vehicle are
capable of collecting and storing
diagnostic information about your vehicle.
This potentially includes information about
the performance or status of various
systems and modules in the vehicle, such
as engine, throttle, steering or brake
systems. In order to properly diagnose and
service your vehicle, Ford Motor Company
(Ford of Canada in Canada), and service
and repair facilities may access or share
among them vehicle diagnostic
information received through a direct
connection to your vehicle when
diagnosing or servicing your vehicle.
Additionally, Ford Motor Company (Ford
of Canada, in Canada) may, where
permitted by law, use vehicle diagnostic
information for vehicle improvement or
with other information we may have about
you, for example, your contact information,
to offer you products or services that may
interest you. Data may be provided to our
service providers such as part suppliers
that may help diagnose malfunctions, and
who are similarly obligated to protect data.
We retain this data only as long as
necessary to perform these functions or to
comply with law. We may provide
information where required in response to
official requests to law enforcement or
other government authorities or third
parties acting with lawful authority or court
order, and such information may be used
in legal proceedings. For U.S. only (if
equipped), if you choose to use connected
apps and services, you consent that certain
diagnostic information may also be
accessed electronically by Ford Motor
Company and Ford authorized service
facilities, and that the diagnostic
information may be used to provide
services to you, personalizing your
experience, troubleshoot, and to improve
products and services and offer you
products and services that may interest
you, where permitted by law. For Canada
only, for more information, please review
the Ford of Canada privacy policy at
www.ford.ca, including our U.S. data
storage and use of service providers in
other jurisdictions who may be subject to
legal requirements in Canada, the United
States and other countries applicable to
them, for example, lawful requirements to
disclose personal information to
governmental authorities in those
countries.
EVENT DATA
This vehicle is equipped with an event data
recorder. The main purpose of an event
data recorder is to record, in certain crash
or near crash-like situations, such as an
airbag deployment or hitting a road
obstacle; this data will assist in
understanding how a vehicle’s systems
performed. The event data recorder is
designed to record data related to vehicle
dynamics and safety systems for a short
period of time, typically 30 seconds or less.
The event data recorder in this vehicle is
designed to record such data as:
•
How various systems in your vehicle
were operating.
•
Whether or not the driver and
passenger seatbelts were
buckled/fastened.
•
How far (if at all) the driver was
depressing the accelerator and/or the
brake pedal.
•
How fast the vehicle was traveling.
•
Where the driver was positioning the
steering wheel.
25
Expedition (TBD) Canada/Mexico/United States of America, enUSA, Edition date: 202409, DOM
Data Privacy


This data can help provide a better
understanding of the circumstances in
which crashes and injuries occur.
Note: Event data recorder data is recorded
by your vehicle only if a non-trivial crash
situation occurs; no data is recorded by the
event data recorder under normal driving
conditions and no personal data or
information (for example name, gender,
age, and crash location) is recorded.
However, parties, such as law enforcement,
could combine the event data recorder data
with the type of personally identifying data
routinely acquired during a crash
investigation.
To read data recorded by an event data
recorder, special equipment is required,
and access to the vehicle or the event data
recorder is needed. In addition to the
vehicle manufacturer, other parties, such
as law enforcement, that have such special
equipment, can read the information if they
have access to the vehicle or the event
data recorder.
BlueCruise Data (If Equipped)
If BlueCruise is active in certain crash or
near crash-like situations, such as an
airbag deployment or hitting a road
obstacle, the system may record driver
attentiveness, based on the direction of
eyes and duration, and photographs of the
driver seat area.
Note: No data is recorded under normal
driving conditions.
SETTINGS DATA
Your vehicle has electronic control units
that have the ability to store data based
on your personalized settings. The data is
stored locally in the vehicle or on devices
that you connect to it, for example, a USB
drive or mobile device. You can delete
some of this data and also choose whether
to share it through the services to which
you subscribe.  See Settings (page 453).
Comfort and Convenience Data
Data recorded includes, for example:
•
Seat and steering wheel position.
•
Climate control settings.
•
Radio presets.
Entertainment Data
Data recorded includes, for example:
•
Music, videos or album art.
•
Contacts and corresponding address
book entries.
•
Navigation destinations.
CONNECTED VEHICLE DATA
The modem has a SIM. The modem was
enabled when your vehicle was built and
periodically sends messages to stay
connected to the cell phone network,
receive automatic software updates and
send vehicle-related information to us, for
example diagnostic information. These
messages could include information that
identifies your vehicle, the SIM and the
electronic serial number of the modem.
Cell phone network service providers could
have access to additional information, for
example cell phone network tower
identification.  For additional information
about our privacy policy, visit
www.FordConnected.com or refer to your
local Ford website.
26
Expedition (TBD) Canada/Mexico/United States of America, enUSA, Edition date: 202409, DOM
Data Privacy


Note: The modem may continue to send
this information unless you disable the
modem or stop the modem from sharing
vehicle data by changing the connectivity
settings.  See Connected Vehicle (page
440).
Note: The service can be unavailable or
interrupted for a number of reasons, for
example environmental or topographical
conditions and data plan coverage.
Note: To find out if your vehicle has
connectivity technology, visit
www.FordConnected.com.
MOBILE DEVICE DATA
If you connect a mobile device to your
vehicle, you can display data from your
device on the touchscreen for example,
music and album art. You can grant apps
permission to access your connected
vehicle information with mobile apps on
your device through the system.
The mobile apps function operates by your
connected device sending data to us in the
United States. The data is encrypted and
includes, for example, the vehicle
identification number of your vehicle, the
operating system module serial number,
odometer, enabled apps, usage statistics
and debugging information. We retain it
only as long as necessary to provide the
service, to troubleshoot, for continuous
improvement and to offer you products
and services that may be of interest to you
according to your preferences and where
allowed by law.
If you connect a cell phone to the system,
the system creates a profile that links to
that cell phone. The cell phone profile
enables more mobile features and efficient
operation. The profile contains, for
example data from your phonebook, read
and unread text messages and call history,
including history of calls when your cell
phone was not connected to the system.
If you connect a media device, the system
creates and retains a media device index
of supported media content. The system
also records a short diagnostic log of
approximately 10 minutes of all recent
system activity.
The cell phone profile, media device index
and diagnostic log remain in your vehicle
unless you delete them and are generally
accessible only in your vehicle when you
connect your cell phone or media device.
If you no longer plan to use the system or
your vehicle, we recommend you use the
applicable reset function to erase the
stored information.  See Performing a
System Reset (page 468).
System data cannot be accessed without
special equipment and access to your
vehicle's module.
For additional information about our
privacy policy, refer to the local Ford
website.
Note: To find out if your vehicle has
connectivity technology, visit
www.FordConnected.com.
EMERGENCY CALL SYSTEM
DATA
When the emergency call system is active,
it may disclose to emergency services that
your vehicle has been in a crash involving
the deployment of an airbag or activation
of the fuel pump shut-off. Certain versions
or updates to the emergency call system
may also be capable of electronically or
27
Expedition (TBD) Canada/Mexico/United States of America, enUSA, Edition date: 202409, DOM
Data Privacy


verbally disclosing to emergency services
operators your vehicle location or other
details about your vehicle or crash to assist
emergency services operators to provide
the most appropriate emergency services.
If you do not want to disclose this
information, do not activate the emergency
call system.
Note: You cannot deactivate emergency
call systems that are required by law.
28
Expedition (TBD) Canada/Mexico/United States of America, enUSA, Edition date: 202409, DOM
Data Privacy